Notes from Codeland 2017. 
Generally in order of presentation.

Talk - Creating Art with a Raspberry Pi - Stephanie Nemeth
* Go create SOMETHING.
* Reality check, asses your skills (improve)
* Break goals into smaller ones.
* Small projects using different frameworks gives you confidence to build more, bigger.
* Projects get people's attention.
* Made a Pi hardware, people on internet can control it, indirectly project helped get job.

Talk - Websites are video games waiting to happen - Opher Vishnia
* Juice -> max output for min input, find it
* Physics events like camera shaking event makes video/website event seem powerful

Talk - Running into your Ex at a party : Elements of a successful game - Chris Algoo
* freesound.org has nice sounds

Talk - Open Data + You = Better Cities - Kate Rabinowitz
* If soemthing it weird don't take it at face value dig deeper. ie: many building built in 1900 in DC, was just a defualt.

Talk - The users your site is missing : Lessons on accessibility from my first coding project  - Breset Walker
* google can have a minimalistic home page because it has a specific function.

Talk - Creating an e-library card : lessongs for coding for one of the largest library systems in the world - Courtney Ervin
* flochart how an app wors
* stakeholders know more about their problems than you

Talk - Javascrupt and the rise of the new virtual machine - Scott Hanselman
* Having a domain makes you a founder
* Think at a higher level of abstraction, that is boss thinking
* platform as a service - hotel - dont care about the clean up
* infrastructure as a service - rental - dont care about the maintenence
* physical server - own a house - have to do everything

DAY2
Talk - Abacus: Shaping the future of education in Belize - Maurice Rogers
* enage your users, talk to them for more info.

WORKSHOP - Preparing for a technical interview - Iuliia Kotlenko
(imho the work shops had a lot to offer as we were able to go over a topic for 3? hours. Can only do one)
JS meetups in Chelsea recommended - they also do mock interviews from time to time
Khanacademy algorithsm course recommnded
Big 0 cheetsheet
Hackerrank better than leetcode, but both are good. then see codality. Pramp  for mock interviews
Use binary search if input sorted else use linear search.
binary search log2n because we split in 2
intervies test problem solving ability
tech intreviews can be  on skype/google hangouts with coding over google docs
good interviewer will try to help steer you to the correct answer
ASK QUESTIONS, even if they seem obvious, they may not be. ask for spcific input/output, what is expected, is arrya sorted
PRACTICE APPLYING data structures, not just knowing them, know performance
hash,binary search tree, stack queue, sort bubble quick merge etc, serch linear and binary
know big O, steps until target or worst case senario. think time AND space complexity
know how to test a solution! not just code but make base tests
dont be silent during interview

Talk - Incognito mentorship - Katrina Owen
Speak at a meetup
Mentorship happens by accident between two people who know each other, not between strangers
What is the amount of trust you have made between a person
Influence is social capital
Book -the first 20 hours READ
direct question, 60 seconds or less, be specific, dont give life story, what point you trying to make
introduce variety into your life. go to a new coffe shop, hike, somwhere something new
go to meetups where you dont know anything about topic
generosity builds trust, little things mean a lot

Talk - How to write technical blog posts that people will actually read - Quincy Larson
reinforce knowledge - blog/do the homework
new spin on old topic ok
not enough articles on mid level programming
1 blog post that makes it can create job oppertunity and contracts
A good headline in 95% of what people read. spend 80% on head then images then content
at lest 1 image per 250 words, use pexels.com for images 
short paragraphs and scentence. not 8 ines a paragraph
tell people THIS exists
put it on hackernews random thigns go viral
targeted facebook groups
use other people's audiance like medium

Panel - Bootcamp battle - 
pair programming - talk through code, verbalize problem solving and thinking
change question to what you bring, ex: What is an MVC? Well, here is this project where I used the MVC to design it. Talk proj

Panel - Open source panel - do I have to do open source?
Safia - layout contributing to open source as a goal, issues exist if you look for them
      - come to os project to be a better person/engineer/make friends
Bryan - opensource  is means to end, I want to do x, put the code out htere
      - how can I make the rich guy richer. paint that sotry even its not true.
      - os - dog eat dog world
      - use your position of power [in os] to get a job
Luara - a repo to github counts as open source
Maria - where is the gap that you can work on?      

Panel - How do I get the job
job posts ->linkedin, glassdoor, internal sites, google+
      code/algorithm/data structures/system design
Github is the repo owned by you? look at commits to see what you were doing. Readme important, how well you document
      github is a plus, I get to know you.
find a recruiter or sourcer.
      choose your words to fit the culture
      what is the day to day work of what you do
      do you know our company?
      google needs googlieness what is culture of company. self taught is ok
      google - 20-50 people hired from bootcamps past 1.5 years. just have the skills
      Eddie was a general assembly grad.
open source - how have you contributed
red flags - many different languages on your resume. you dont know them all. especially if you worked on it only 1 month
      know fundamentals of 1 language, be good at one thing.
      what ever you saw you know you WILL be questioned on.
      dont call your self code ninja or wierd things. 
      to show individuality use coverletter NOT resume
whiteboard - when at google expecting production quality code
***** ASK FOR A TAKEHOME ****** why: its binary, you can do or you cant. low investment for company. 
      ask for it even if not offered, a company could take a chance that it may not have done otherwise - Eddit


Scott - tips he gave below
      Anjuan Simmons video 
      lend your privledge
      hidden figures - a show - is good
      imitation game - Allan Turing movie
      Mother of all demos - video
      
General tips:
      new devs come to connect with more experianced devs
      keep the side hustle giong, side projets MORE important than resume - Nikhil Paul
      see glitch.com
      use twitter to promote your brand
      got a job on twitter, no need business card, its your community - Ptan
      get 5 members of your geeksquad - Kim Clayton
            thats you FCCBX ;)









